---
layout: slide
title: "What is data"
---


## What is data?

Let's start with some stretching exercises and talk about some different ways to think about data.

What are some kinds of data your discipline or field uses?

Different conceptions of information (overlapping, non-comprehensive):

- Qualitative vs Quantitative
- Nominal vs Ordinal
- Discrete vs Continuous

<aside markdown="1" class="notes">
Qualitative: subjective, open to interpretation. E.g. the response "I'm feeling pretty good today", the famous photograph of Che Guevara by Alberto Korda, 
Quantitative: objective, often numerical. E.g. height, income, Microsoft Windows 3.1, 

Nominal: data with no inherent order, can be grouped but resists direct comparison. E.g. eye color
Ordinal: ranked data which may not have quantitative intervals. E.g. order or preference, military rank

Continuous: unbroken and infinutely smooth, like an idealized ramp. E.g. Temperature across the course of a day.
Discrete: broken up into distinct and finite values (samples), like an idealized staircase. E.g. hourly measurements of temperature across the course of a day

What are some issues with these conception of data?
When a doctor asks you "On a scale from 1 to 10, how much does it hurt?" is it quantitative or qualitative? 

Which is the map and which is the terrain? i.e. what is the data and what is the representation? The photograph of Korda is a unique physical artifact, a developed frame of Kodak Plus-X film that has a specific arrangement of silver, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms.

Quantitative data itself is, maybe, objective, but its 
definition, context, representation, and interpretation are often extremely subjective! 
</aside>
